she rats head coach here at Northwestern
yes something carry on who said was
really important this week he stressed
to his team you wrestled the team in
front of you you don't wrestle this
team's history and Brandon Creason and
Matt McDonough are lined up and we are
underway at 125 pounds the number one
and number two ranked wrestlers in the
country going at it if you tried to
wrestle Iowa's history you'd have quite
the tough task in front of you no that's
for sure certainly McDonough within a
front headlock position early in the
match Creason he's got that hand posted
to the mat he wants to circle and get
back up to his feet and they're gonna
call a stalemate and put him back up
these are when these two wrestlers met
earlier this season at the Midland
Championship recent got the first
takedown with an underhook how important
is that first takedown in this match
very important you're staking yourself
out to a two nothing lead if you get one
early precent in on one here looking for
an opportunity
and there is still no signal McDonough
has the Whizzer in that Whizzer means
neither wrestler is in control you see
coach Perry oh no screaming at that by
the northwestern bench thought he
already had the two points the crowd
thought so too and there's recent limp
arms out and gets that first takedown to
take the two nothing lead something
that's really important when wrestling
Matt McDonough is you have to control
the pace of the match McDonough possibly
the best conditioned wrestler in the
NCAA he just keeps going he keeps going
the third periods his best period and he
puts up a lot of points and it lucky for
him it's not just being the best
condition I mean you look at the build
on this guy very tall and lanky you see
priests and a lot closer to the ground
that McDonough is precent standing only
5'4 McDonough at five seven so there's a
three inch height advantage for
McDonough priests and accumulating
riding time now this is a great ride by
the northwestern senior
prease and second on the team this year
with six pins pretty solid from the top
position kind of have a bit of a
scramble there right near that end line
and precent has now accumulated over a
minute of riding time which is added on
at the end of the match but right now
the sport more accurately is three to
zero and he is just really working I'm
here I mean it really is a typical
Brandon precent type match from the
moment he got to Evanston he has been a
no-nonsense kind of guy the let me get
it worked out in between classes during
lunch kind of guy and you're seeing it
right here with the great ride very
tough on top and through carry on oh
very happy after that first period
recent accumulates a minute 45 of riding
time and takes a 2 nothing lead into the
second period he's going to defer choice
to McDonough and McDonough will choose
to keep this match on his feet he
chooses neutral position
you see precent in the ear-to-ear tight
he's keeping mcdonough in tight because
McDonough has that reach and height
advantage and you talked about how
important it is to get an early takedown
because now they're in the neutral
position precent doesn't need one he's
already got three in his pocket right
now essentially with the riding time
advantage
McDonagh much more difficult to wrestle
ferpa from behind for any wrestler but
especially when you're wrestling someone
of the caliber of Brandon presum because
he's just not gonna make very many
mistakes and another stalemate they're
back up to their feet
Creason sprawls off mcdonoughs shot
their back up to their feet still in
that tie up priests and with an
underhook
but a great round here Steven I mean
they're obviously both on their feet
priests like we said has that lead
McDonough's kind of had him in this
headlock for the entire time but
McDonough really needs a takedown in
this period because it's presense choice
in the third and he's already in a two
nothing hole a three nothing hole once
the riding time gets added on there's 20
seconds left in the second period
McDonough back in that headlock position
waiting for priests and it's really nice
to see when a wrestler can come to a
school he started as a true freshman and
then just get better and better as the
years go on and now in his senior year
trying to get that what has been an
elusive national title yet he placed
third two years ago and recent the food
peer and he's going to take down
McDonald looking over to his coaches but
he's gonna cut priests in give him a
point and put him back up on his feet a
caution is called on McDonough though
because he did not signal to the referee
that he wanted an optional start and
Creason back up to his feet given the
escape 3 to 0 now riesen took last
season off as a redshirt season and he
actually placed third at the 2010 u.s.
World Team Trials last year took a year
off to train for freestyle for the
Olympics I mean I think you'd have to
rip Brandon precent off the mat I mean
you look at the the amount of matches
that he is logged in his career at
northwestern he just never sits at all
and recent still working for that second
takedown ran out of Matt there but he
was in on McDonough's leg but every year
you know precent has kind of been Matt
McDonough that's to take down the rep is
counting the back points this will be a
five point move and possibly a pin for
Matt McDonough so he now leads the match
five to three
and he's got this higher signal but he's
got precent in tight they're looking for
a pin here the Iowa fans on their feet
and both the brand service and McDonough
gets the pin on Driessen that's a huge
win for Iowa's momentum they'll get 16
points from a match that northwestern
expected to win yeah this was a match
that northwestern needed to have to try
to keep this thing close against Iowa